---
title: Section templates
slug: section-templates
updated: 2023-01-26
category: operator-guides
ingress:
  Learn how Article, Columns, Features, and Carousel templates affect
  your static content layout in Flex.
published: false
---

Section templates control the layout of your Section via the content
Blocks. Each Block of content in your Section is shown according to the
rules of the chosen Section template. There are four templates to choose
from: Article, Columns, Features and Carousel. This guide describes the
layout of these four Section templates.

If you're looking for more general information about creating content
pages in your marketplace, this is the guide for you.

## Article template

The Article template is best for long-form written information. This
template emphasizes titles and content space for easier reading. It is
perfect for creating content pages like Terms of use, Privacy policy, or
FAQ pages. If you’re publishing blog content to your marketplace, the
Article template is the best way to layout your Blocks.

### Layout

The Article template stacks Blocks one on top of another. The Blocks are
centered on the page. Your Blocks appear in the Article layout below any
Section title, ingress, or call to action button.

Each additional Block added to an Article section is stacked below the
previous Block. If you have a lot of written content to share, then
creating new Blocks for each topic lets you keep the information
organized.

![articles](./articles.png)

_The Article template is best for written text, like a Terms of use
page. Shown is a single Section of a Terms page using the article
layout. Each heading is a different Block. Blocks are stacked one on top
of the other._

## Columns template

Columns template displays Blocks side by side. It is great for breaking
down a particular message in a concise and engaging manner. There are
many potential use cases for using this layout, such as showcasing the
locations your marketplace serves or describing your marketplace’s value
proposition to your buyers (or sellers).

### Layout

Columns template arranges Blocks side by side, starting from the
left-most edge. Each new Block represents one column. You may have as
many as four columns per row. Each new Block appears as a new column.
Your Blocks below any Section title, ingress, or call to action button.

![columns](./columns.png)

_Columns work best with multiple Blocks. In the default landing page,
this layout is used to encourage buyers to search for listings and
providers to create listings. Each column is a unique Block with a
title, image, and call to action button._

## Features template

Features template shows text and visual content side by side in
alternating order. It is great for telling a story in a visually
appealing manner. You should use it anytime you want to use visual and
text content side by side. For instance, a customer testimonial page
would look great using this template.

### Layout

Features template transforms each Block into a single row within the
Section. The Block will split visual and written information, one on
each side of the center. Visual content can be a Youtube-hosted video or
image that you upload.

Each new Block adds a new row to this Section. The ordering of visual
and text information will alternate with each new Block. Your Blocks
appear in the Features layout below any Section title, ingress, or call
to action button. Each new Block adds a new row

![features](./features.png)

_Features sections are highly visual. This example encourages buyers to
find listings and sellers to create them. Each row is a unique Block.
Both Blocks include an image, title, text, and call to action button.
This layout alternates where media and text information appear._

## Carousel template

Carousel template creates a scrollable slideshow out of your content. It
is another great option for showcasing information where visual content
takes center stage. Carousels also add an interactive element by
requiring a scroll to show all the information. Use this Section
template to showcase what is best about your marketplace, such as
popular listings, categories, or providers.

### Layout

Unlike the features template, Blocks in a carousel all show on a single
row. Each Block is thumbnail. The carousel features 1, 2, 3, or 4 Blocks
on the page. Users can scroll or swipe through them to reveal additional
Blocks of content.

1 column carousels have the largest thumbnails. The more Blocks that are
featured, the smaller each thumbnail in the carousel. Thumbnails can be
video or images and feature text.

Blocks appear in the Carousel layout below any Section title, ingress,
or call to action button.

![carousel](./carousel.png)

_A Carousel example showcasing different locations. Each location is
added as a Block with a title, image, and call to action button. The
call to action button takes you to the search page with the location’s
search parameters inputted, which exists at a unique URL generated by
making the search. The carousel is scrollable left and right using
arrows or by swiping._

## Further formatting with Markdown

Section templates determine the layout of Blocks in a Section. If you
want to format how information looks inside your Block, then you should
use Markdown. Markdown is a syntax language that lets you format text
inside Blocks. [Our guide](https://www.sharetribe.com/docs/
operator-guides/how-to-format-your-text-in-pages/) for formatting with
Markdown will get you started using it with Pages.
