---
title: How to add good looking logos and images
slug: how-to-add-good-looking-logos-and-images
updated: 2023-07-05
category: the-new-sharetribe-branding
ingress: Resolution and cropping rules for your marketplace images.
published: true
---

You can add all your marketplace photos, including the logo, favicon,
app icon, background image, and social media images, in the Content area
of your Console account. Go to the test environment of your marketplace
and then go to "Design → Branding".

## Ensure your images look good!

_You can do this by following the minimum recommended sizes!_

Your images should follow the recommended sizes below to ensure that
they look good. If you don't follow the recommended sizes, your images
might look cropped or too small. You cab resize or crop your marketplace
photos using a basic image editor (like Paint) or an online tool like
[Cropp.me](http://cropp.me/) or [Cut My Pic](http://www.cutmypic.com/).

You can also try just adding the images in their original format and see
the results. Afterward, you can alter the images by cropping.
Experimenting is another way of getting better results.

## Logo

Your marketplace logo is shown on the top left corner of your
marketplace Top bar. For the best result, we recommend using a file with
a height of 48 pixels and a width of 48 – 370 pixels. The file should be
a jpg or png.

The logo images are scaled to have a few image variants, such as for
retina displays and normal screens. However, if the logo's aspect ratio
is not inside the recommended one, the logo may look too small or
compressed. for better results edit the image to have a good resolution
at the recomended height and then adjust the width accordingly.

## Favicon

The favicon will be visible to any visitor in their browser tab. For
your favicon image, use a square image in dimension 48x48 pixels or
larger. The file should be a jpg, png, or .ico. Adding your favicon as a
.ico file type to ensure visibility in different browsers. In
particular, Microsoft Edge seems to rely on this file type, but a .ico
file should work in other browsers as well.

If the photo you upload is smaller than the recommended 48x48 px size,
If the images are smaller, it will be scaled up, which caused
pixelation.

## Background image for login pages

The background image is for pages related to authentication: Login, Sign
Up, Email Verification, Password Recovery, and Password Reset. It should
have a 2:1 aspect ratio and a minimum size of 1200x600 pixels.

## Social media image

This image is shown on the social media card when someone shares your
marketplace in a post on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, or another social
media service. It should have a 1.91:1 aspect ratio and a minimum size
of 1200x630 pixels.

## Listing image

The listing images are the images that your providers or sellers use to
showcase the products, items or services they’re putting up for sale.
Most of the time you won't have control over the images that your users
upload. However, you can always guide your users to provide high quality
and correct images.

The listing image can be landscape, portrait or square, and the maximum
listing image size is 20 MB and 3072 x 3072 pixels. However, in order to
maximize performance, you might want to ask your users to upload smaller
images. Depending on the thumbnail ratio on your marketplace search
page, the recommended sizes vary quite a lot. You can learn more about
the listing thumbnail aspect ratio here, in
[this article from the layout section](https://www.sharetribe.com/docs/the-new-sharetribe/listing-thumbnail-aspect-ratio/).

## Do you need a logo?

A logo is a very important part of your brand identity. If you don't
have a designer on your team and want to benefit from a professional
designer, you can find one on a freelance platform like Upwork or
Fiverr. However, if
[you’re bootstrapping your marketplace](https://www.sharetribe.com/academy/marketplace-funding/bootstrapping/)
and have a tight budget, you can get a good-looking logo with services
like [Canva's Logo Maker](https://www.canva.com/logos/),
[logogenie](https://www.logogenie.net/), or
[logo.com](https://logo.com/).
