---
title: Introducing Sharetribe and Zapier
slug: zapier-1-intro
updated: 2023-07-28
category: the-new-sharetribe-concepts
ingress:
  Zapier is a powerful tool that allows you to automate aspects of your
  Sharetribe marketplace.
published: true
---

Welcome to the world of automation! If you're operating a Sharetribe
marketplace, understanding and utilizing Zapier can be a game-changer.
Let's explore what Zapier is, why it could be beneficial for your
marketplace, and provide some real-world use cases.

## What is Zapier?

Zapier is a tool that allows you to connect and automate tasks between
different web applications. Essentially, it enables different online
tools to communicate and work together, with Zapier as the intermediary.
In our case, those tools will be your Sharetribe marketplace and any
other web applications you use to manage and optimize your operations.

Note: If you’ve never heard of Zapier, it might be a good idea to watch
[this 1-minute video introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S3L1Kw087JI)
by the Zapier team. It explains the basics of Zapier and what it does.

## Why it’s a good idea to use Zapier with Sharetribe

Automating repetitive tasks can save you tons of time, reduce errors,
and help you stay organized. For example, each time a booking is made on
your marketplace, Zapier can send a text message to the provider with
all the booking details. The same applies when a new user joins your
marketplace, or when a new listing is created. You can have these events
automatically logged into a Google Sheet or a CRM like HubSpot.

The possibilities are endless and completely customizable to your
specific needs. Imagine being able to:

1. **Send SMS notifications with Twilio**: For instance, every time a
   booking is made of a listing, the provider could receive a text
   message containing information about who booked it and when.
   [Here's a Zap template](https://zapier.com/shared/10df518e77541354c78dd1c524cf28f59c774aaf)
   that you can use and adjust.

2. **Manage your email marketing with Mailchimp**: Each time a new user
   joins your marketplace, they could be automatically added to a
   Mailchimp audience for future email campaigns. Check out
   [this Zap template](https://zapier.com/shared/412d7744a23855ce00941567a619c7ffb7652335).

3. **Streamline your data management with Google Sheets or CRM**: You
   could have important data like new users, new listings, and new
   bookings automatically sent to a Google Sheet or a CRM like HubSpot.

4. **Automate your email notifications**: You can expand on the existing
   email notifications by building your own email automation for certain
   actions. This could be operator notifications when a new user joins,
   or when a new listing is ready to be reviewed.

5. **Improve your social media management**: You could have all new
   listings on your marketplace automatically posted to your social
   media channels.

Remember, these are just a few examples. The beauty of Zapier is that
it's versatile and customizable. You can mix and match apps, events, and
actions to create the perfect workflow for your Sharetribe marketplace.
Happy automating!

## Alright, I’m sold! How do I get started?

Now that you understand the potential benefits of integrating Zapier
with your Sharetribe marketplace, let's get you started! In this
article, we'll guide you through the steps of setting up a Zapier
account and authorizing it to connect to your Sharetribe account.

### Step 1: Set Up Your Zapier Account

To begin with, you will need a Zapier account. Zapier offers different
plans, including a free one that may be sufficient for your needs. You
can visit [Zapier's website](https://zapier.com/) and click on the "Sign
Up" button to get started.

Once your account is set up, you'll find yourself in the Zapier
dashboard. This is your control center where you'll create and manage
your Zaps.

### Step 2: Connect Zapier to Your Sharetribe Account

The next step is to connect your Sharetribe account to Zapier.

1. In your Zapier dashboard, click on "My Apps" from the left side menu.

2. Click on “+ Add connection” and in the window that appears, search
   for "Sharetribe Flex".

3. Click on "Sharetribe Flex" in the search results. (Side note: This is
   because Sharetribe Flex and The New Sharetribe use the same
   integration framework for Zapier)

A new window will open asking you to connect your Sharetribe account by
entering your Client ID and Client Secret. After entering these, your
Sharetribe account is connected to Zapier.

4. Click on "Authorize" to grant Zapier the necessary permissions.

_Note: Be assured that Zapier takes your privacy and data security
seriously. It only accesses the data needed to perform the tasks you set
up, and you can revoke these permissions at any time._

Once the authorization process is complete, your Sharetribe account will
be connected to Zapier, and you can start creating Zaps to automate your
tasks.

Congratulations! You've taken the first steps towards automating your
Sharetribe marketplace with Zapier. In the next article, we'll take a
deeper dive into how Zapier works with Sharetribe. In part 3 of these
series, we go through a step-by-step guide to create a live and working
zap. Stay tuned!
