---
title: Listing fields
slug: listing-fields
updated: 2023-04-24
category: operator-guides-listings
ingress: Understanding listing fields and how to use them
published: true
---

## What are listing fields?

Listing fields contain information about the offering being listed.
Listing fields are filled in by the listing author during listing
creation. Listing fields can also be used for filtering and as search
parameters. There are default listing fields and custom listing fields.
The default listing fields are listing title, listing description, price
or location. These fields cannot be removed. You can, however, modify
how the default fields are named in your marketplace by using [the
microcopy editor](LINK TO MICROCOPY EDITOR).

The custom listing fields are optional and can be created, added, and
removed from your marketplace. Each custom listing field will allow you
to ask listing authors for information in the listing creation form. The
information that is provided by the listing authors will then be
displayed in the listing page for users browsing the marketplace. It can
also be used to create filters or affect the keyword search.

## Custom listing field types

There are 3 types of listing fields that can be added: Free text, Select
one and Select multiple

### Free text

Allows users to write information about the listing. This field will be
displayed as a text area in the listing creation form and as a block of
text on the listing page. It can be used for many different pieces of
information. The information requested can be short or long.

Consider using the Free text field type when the information requested
is not specific and depends a lot on the listing author. This can be
used, for example, for rental terms or rules on rental marketplaces, or
qualifications and descriptions when they are difficult to encompass in
a single list.

### Select one

Select one lets the listing author select one attribute from a list of
options to assing to their listing. To create this field, you have to
define the list of options available to select. This field will be
displayed as a dropdown in the listing creation form and as a single
option on the listing page. This field type is ideal when there are
multiple, finite, options to choose from. You can use this field type,
for example, for “Shoe size”, “Color”, and “Category”. Bear in mind that
if the options are not finite, you might want to use a “Free text” type
of field instead. For example, if you sell shoes or bikes, and cannot
possibly expect to encompass all the brands in one single list, choose
Free text.

### Select multiple

Select multiple lets the listing author choose multiple attributes (as
many as are available) from a list of options. To create this field, you
have to define the list of options available to select. These will be
displayed as checkboxes in the listing creation form and as multiple
options selected on the listing page.

This field type is ideal for relatively homogeneous marketplaces, where
people are comparing options. It can be used to display a rental space’s
amenities, additional services offered or available sizes. As with
Select One, if the options cannot be confined to a specific list,
consider adding the field as a Free text instead (or in addition).

_Listing Form layout screenshot_ _Listing Page layout screenshot_

### Field options

Available when choosing “Select one” or “Select multiple” as Field type.
The list of field options you input becomes the available filters on
your search page for this listing field.You need to add at least one
option but can add as many as you want.

### Search settings

Search settings are options particular to the type of Field that you are
adding and can be used to find listings easier.

Include this field in keyword search: this option is available only to
Free text type of fields. If enabled, the contents of this field will be
searched against when users use keyword search. Keyword search returns
results based on how well they match the listing title, description, and
free text field (in this order of priority).

Add a filter to the search page: this option is available only for
Select one or Select multiple field types. If enabled, a filter is added
to the search page that can be used to find specific listings on the
search page. All the options for filters are available on the search
page. The filter behavior changes depending on the type of Field.

- Filter visibility: determines whether the filter is a primary or a
  secondary filter. Learn more about this option in this article about
  search and filtering.
